Welcome back.
I've just put our robo friends project on GitHub, but let's say you're downloading this project, maybe
you're sharing a project with other developers.
But this project, let's say, was written last year.
How can we update this project?
If you remember, when we look at the package DOT, JSON file, we have the react version as sixteen
point two, but the Riak version is now higher.
So let's update this project, as you would on any other project.
I'm going to clone this repo and I'm going to use S.H. You might have to use HD if you haven't had that
set up.
But I'm going to use S.H. just so I don't have to enter my password every time, so I'm going to clone
this repoll, say, git clone.
Awesome.
Now, if I go into my friends.
Folder and I opened this in Sublime.
There we go, we have our package dot, JSON file, which we can see over here now when I usually download
a project, I want to make sure it starts.
So I'm going to say npm start and make sure that everything is still working.
Oh, and I get an error because I have to first do npm install.
Oh, boy, and we get a bunch of errors or warnings saying we've audited some of your packages and there's
a few vulnerabilities, actually quite a lot and too critical one, and we can run an audit fix to fix
them.
So let's copy that and run that again.
And now I get another issue that 27 vulnerabilities required manual review and you see here that it's
mainly because some of them require what we call breaking changes.
It might break our app.
And this is the trade off when updating libraries.
You are using an older version of a library that may have changed and now breaks your app completely,
so sometimes you want to go one by one to actually check and see what the changes are in these libraries.
Now, if I run NPM audit here.
It'll actually give me some idea of what my issues are.
Now, before I do NPM audit.
Fix and then do dash dash force to force all those changes, I want to talk a little bit about this
package that Jason.
You see the react script, which is the create react up script that runs is outdated.
There's a way higher version of react scripts, a bigger version of the cray cray reactor.
And same with react.
So one thing I can do is say NPM update.
And if I run this.
And when I click on this file, check this out.
Did you see that my aversions got updated now NPM update, what it does is it looks at this version
and says, what's the highest version that I can upgrade to in my case?
Because I use the carrot.
It said, hey, you can upgrade to whatever the highest version is in the minor release.
So if there was a react version 17, well, this wouldn't upgrade to 17 because we're using the carrot.
Remember, we can use greater than if we want to.
But this way, we make sure that we only update whatever is in the minor release, which tends to not
have any breaking changes, for example, when we have reacted 17, that's most likely going to have
some breaking changes.
OK, so we have the react version updated, but we still have these vulnerabilities that we need to
fix.
Let's now run the audit, fix and force, assuming that we've looked through the changes and we assume
that it's OK, everything should still work.
So I'm going to run this.
And again, keep in mind that when using force, you want to make sure that you actually reviewed the
updates.
Now, while this is going, another thing I could have done with React is actually gone to the React
website and checked the actual version.
And instead of having the carrot just or doing NPM update, I could just change the version.
Let's say version 17 comes out in react seventeen point zero point two.
Well, I can just change that and package Dodgson and run NPM install again.
Let's clear this, we see here that our react script is now updated to version three point two, that
is the latest version of create a reactor.
That's awesome if I do NPM audit once again.
I have zero vulnerabilities.
All right, looks like everything is looking fine, but we have one issue, right?
We've updated everything that we have.
There's no vulnerabilities.
But because we've updated all these things, will our project still work?
Well, there's one way to find out.
Let's do npm start.
All right, the nuclear reactor app asked me for a target browser, so I'll click.
Yes, here.
And look at that, looks like things are still working.
Good job, Wrobel friends.
If I open up the developer tools and I go to console, there's no airs.
That's great.
So just like that, I was able to update my project, upgrade my project with all the latest, react
all the latest, react on the react scripts, which is what create react app uses, we have tachyons
updated as well.
And everything is working fine.
So I can now push this change to GitHub so that we don't have those security warnings.
Let's do that.
I'm going to say get add.
Get, commit, I'll say fixing.
Security issues, updated libraries.
Try to get Push Origin Master, because while I'm the only one on this project so I can just push to
Maxtor.
Now, if I go back to my GitHub page and I refresh.
Let's check out the security tab and look at that, we have zero closed, zero open because our project
is now fully up to date.
How cool is that?
This is a great way to keep your projects updated and the security vulnerabilities fixed, but the more
libraries you have, the more dependencies you have, the more maintenance you have to do to make sure
that every time you update a library.
That it doesn't break your app, our robo friends app was fairly small, but you can imagine this being
a bigger and bigger issues as applications grow.
But I hope you learned one little trick that took me a long time to actually learn in my developer career.
That is the easiest way to keep your projects up to date and secure is to just simply update the package
Dodgson file.
I'll see in the next one, Bhabhi.